Mechanics

	Inscribed
		Basic Mechanics:
		Planet Hope is a single player 3D Exploration Game.
		Players explore 3D environment using standard wasd style controls.
		They can walk, run, jump, etc.
		Our twist is to use spherical planets with gravity pointing inward.
		Players can explore the whole planet with no boundary but being held down by gravity.
		The player cannot walk up a slope if it's too steep, and must find another way around.
		Each planet has its own size and gravity. As well as a unique environment to explore.
		
		Player Goals/Objectives:
		Player starts inside the ship, and can see multiple possible destinations.
		Only one location is unlocked, the others require collecting some amount of gems, the primary resource.
		Gem collecting is the short term goal.
		There are signs showing the required number of gems to unlock each planet.
		To unlock a planet there will typically be a choice between many gems from an earlier planet, or fewer gems from a later planet.
		Players will collect gems found in the environment by walking into them.
		Gems make a pleasant sound when collected.
		Gems are typically placed in trails to guide the player to new locations, or in rings to reward the player.
		If the player spends too long on the planet, a monster will come directly for them.
		Monster can scale all terrain and comes directly for the player.
		The monster plays a sound effect to alert the player.
		If the monster touches the player, it's game over.
		As the player advances to new levels, the monster becomes faster and releases sooner, increasing the difficulty.
		Visiting new planets is the mid term goal.
		If the player collects enough gems to unlock planet hope, they win. Planet Hope is the long term goal.

	Dynamic
		Players will experience the discovery of new locations as they appear over the horizon.
		They will traverse the environment in a brand new way. Even a few possible locations can lead to many possible paths.
		Unlocking the planet integrates the player's actions (gem collection) with the rewarding outcome.
		Gems make a pleasant sound when collected to make collection discernable and meaningful.
		Players may choose different gem collecting strategies.
		They can collect as few in each level as possible to move on to the next level, and play through each level.
		Or they can collect as many gems as possible to play through as few levels as possible.
		Players can explore, speed-run, or go for 100% completion.

	Cultural
		Custom Levels and Player Mods:
		Players can easily use the techniques used by the developers to make their own planets.
		Players could make a mod with a monster free world they can use as a sandbox builder.
		Or a multiplayer mod for fighting eachother.

Technology
	Inscribed
		Unity:
		Most important piece of technology to implement the game is, of course, unity.
		We had to build our own control object from scratch, since the CharacterController component and the RigidBody component didn't play nice together.
		Each component was fighting for control of the object's transform.
		We built a RigidBody based controller since thats the component that allows for adding forces.
		CharacterController gravity couldn't point inwards.
		Unity terrain sculptor was also used to sculpt the heightmap net of for the planets.
	Dynamic
		RigidBody Controller:
		The RigidBody component allows us to constantly adds a gravitational force to the player pointing towards the center of the planet, and rotates them so they are upright.
		This allows them to walk around the spherical world.
		The code checks the collision contacts and looks at the normal vector.
		The normal vector is compared to the local upward direction to calculate the slope.
		If the slope is too high, the player cannot control the character's lateral motion and will slide down.
		To prevent the player getting stuck in v shaped pits, the code also looks at the average normal vector of all the collisions.
	Cultural
		Players could make a custom planet building tool to assist in planet building.
		The technology used to build and explore planets could be repurposed for education purposes.
		To explore real-world planets, or other impossible to access environments such as the microscopic world.






